### Composer/Author (100)

Information is entered here concerning the identification of the main person involved as the author, in its broadest
sense, of the source.

#### Name (100 $a)

**Required field.**

Enter the name of the person responsible for the work. This may be the composer (for music manuscripts and printed
music), librettist (for librettos), or author of a work of music theory (for treatises). This field is linked to the **
Personal names** authority file. Names not yet in the authority file may be added. In such cases, check the box "Confirm
the insertion of a new value" and add the person's life dates, if known, in the field **Life dates**. The new name,
including life dates, will be confirmed and edited by the Editorial Center.

#### Attribution (100 $j)

Select an indicator to describe the level of certainty of the attribution if any of these situations apply. If not,
leave blank.

- **Alleged** means the name is present on the source, but the attribution is questionable or doubtful.
- **Ascertained** means the name is partially present or entirely absent from the source, but attribution is (
  reasonably) certain and based on comparison with concordant sources, secondary literature, or other scholarly
  resources. This happens in most cases.
- **Conjectural** is a guess based on secondary evidence, such as secondary literature.
- **Doubtful** means authorship is in question.
- **Misattributed** means the name is on the source but is incorrect. If the source is anonymous, leave this field
  blank.

The attribution **verified** appears on older records but is no longer in use. It was used if the composer's name
appears on the source in the same form as the RISM name heading.
