### Title on source (245 $a)

**Required field.**

Enter the title exactly as it appears on the source (the diplomatic title). In practice, this may include all information on the title page, such as the composer's name or other indications. For printed music, include everything on the title page including the imprint.   
  
Transcribe the title in its entirety. Do not abbreviate. Indicate line breaks with **|** (the vertical pipe) with a single space before and after. Indicate superscripts with **|** without a space before each superscript sign. Each character that is written in superscript must be preceded by a |, as in: 1|m|o . Repeated letters indicated by a macron diacritic may be written out: m[m]

Include information about where the title appears in square brackets at the beginning of the field. Always use terminology in English, followed by a colon. Enclose supplementary data in square brackets. Use an exclamation point in brackets **[!]** or **[sic]** to indicate an unusual or incorrect spelling.

For printed music, you can indicate decorative elements in brackets, such as:  
[in red ink:]  
[printer's mark]  
[vignette]

If no title is available, enter, in English: **[without title]**

See also the list of **Standard terms**.

_Examples_:  
[title page:] Vesperae | chorales unà cum | organo cantandae | pro | Choro Ingolstadiensi,  
[without title]   
[caption title, f. 1r:] Claver [sic] [illegible] von Wartensee | Frankfurt 9 Oct. 1829.  
[cover title:] XII | Divertimentous [!]  
[cover title:] Offertorium in C | a | Canto, Alto, Tenore, Basso | Violino 1|m|o et 2|d|o | Viola | Clarinetto 1|m|o et 2|d|o | Corno 1|m|o et 2|d|o | Fagotto 1|m|o et 2|d|o | Clarino 1|m|o et 2|d|o | Timpani | Organo et Violon | Jos. Eibler