### Special production technique (340)
This field is for the physical description information for an item that required technical equipment for its production, and for the description of the page format.  
  

#### Printing technique (340 $d)

You may indicate the technique(s) used in the production of the source here. If you need any term not on the list, please contact the Editorial Center.

- **Autography** : Transfer printing (not to be confused with autograph manuscripts).
- **Computer printout**
- **Engraving**
- **Facsimile** : A reproduction made with the intention to simulate as closely as possible the physical appearance of a previous work. (This does not refer to commercial facsimile music editions, which should be entered as Secondary literature.)
- **Lithography**
- **Offset printing**  
- **Photoreproductive process** : Includes Cyanotype, diazo print, blueprint.
- **Reproduction** : Many types of mechanical reproductions are included here, such as photocopy, xerocopy, heliography.   
- **Transparency**
- **Typescript**
- **Typography** : Includes music printed using movable type.
- **Woodcut**  

 

Any additions or comments about the printing technique may be explained in the field **General note (500 $a)**.

If a source includes multiple printing techniques, you may repeat the field to indicate each technique. Include a note in the field **General note (500 $a)** to explain.

_Example_:  
Engraved music that has a lithographed title page:  
**Special production technique (340 $d)**: Engraving  
**Special production technique (340 $d)**: Lithography  
**General note (500 $a)**: Music engraved. Title page lithographed.

  

#### Book format (340 $m)

Select the format of the book resulting from folding a sheet to form a gathering of leaves (for example, a sheet folded once to form a folio, twice to form a quarto, three times to form an octavo). Select from the following:

- 

**2°** : folio, fo

- 

**4°** : quarto, 4to

- 

**8°** : octavo, 8vo

- 

**12°** : duodecimo, twelvemo, 12mo

- 

**16°** : sextodecimo, sixteenmo, 16mo

- 

**18°** : octodecimo, eighteenmo, 18mo

- 

**20°** : vigesimo, twentymo, 20mo

- 

**24°** : vigesimo-quarto, twenty-fourmo, 24mo

- **obl.**  **2°** : oblong folio

- **obl.**  **4°** : oblong quarto

- **obl.**  **8°** : oblong octavo