### Total scoring (594)

#### Voice/instrument (594 $b)
 **Required field.**

The scoring (also known as performing force, medium of performance, or instrumentation, which here includes vocal parts) of a work, which was given in brief in the **Scoring summary** , is given here in full. The **Scoring summary** must therefore always correlate with the details you enter in this full description of the scoring.

If the full scoring requirements are not given, these should be ascertained from the title or the material itself. If the scoring is not known, write **no indication**. Any uncertainty can be mentioned in more detail in the field **General note (500)**.      

Use the autocomplete in this field to help you. An alphabetical list of abbreviations can be found in the RISM instrument abbreviations list. General instrumental designations (such as strings) are always in English and individual instruments are in Italian whenever possible. Other specific, regional instruments should be written in the original language.

Use upper case for vocal parts and lower case for other instrumental parts. Solo instruments begin with **iSol:**.

If you have a figured bass, enter the instrument as usual, such as **b** , **bc** , **org** , etc. (but see the tables in the section **Figured bass in scores and/or parts** for guidance with related fields).

For non-C instruments, standard tunings are listed in the abbreviation list. If the tuning in your source deviates from the standard tuning, please list the tuning in the source (see: **in A** ). For instruments that are normally in C, "in C" does not need to be listed. If in doubt, list the tuning. Instrument tunings should be given in English. See **Appendix: Keys**.

When trying to decide between similar terms, it is usually best to go with what is on the source. If the name of the instrument in your source deviates from the RISM abbreviation, you may write the term as on the source in the field **General note (500)**.

List the scoring in the following order: 

- 

Solo voices

- 

Chorus

- 

Solo instruments

- 

Strings

- 

Woodwinds

- 

Brass

- 

Plucked instruments

- 

Percussion

- 

Keyboard instruments

- 

Basso continuo

List parts from the highest to the lowest range. Enter one instrument per line. Add alternative scoring possibilities to the original requirements in brackets.

_Examples:_

S  
A  
T  
B  
Coro 1: T  
Coro 1: A  
Coro 2: S  
iSol: pf  
vl  
vla  
vlc  
b  
ob (fl)  
cl in A  
tr  
org

 

#### Number (594 $c)

Indicate the total number of parts here. If a piece includes two parts for the same instrument, enter the single instrument in the field **Scoring** and **2** in the field **Number**.

 _Examples:_

- For a piece with violin 1 and violin 2:  
vl  
2
- Only 1 viola part:  
vla  
1
- Oboe 1 and oboe 2:  
ob  
2
- Only 1 clarinet part:  
cl  
1  

_MARC note: This field in the OPAC is_ _594 $a._ _The value for $a is generated during the export to the OPAC._