### RISM series A/I and B reference (596)  

Enter cross-references to printed editions indexed in printed RISM series if the source clearly presents the same work, such as a manuscript copy of a printed edition. More details can be given in the field **General note (500)**. See also the field **Related source (787)**.

#### RISM series A/I and B reference (596 $a)

Select the RISM series.

####   
RISM series number (596 $b)

Enter the reference to the piece in the RISM series. Note that each volume has a different way of referring to sources; some have individual numbers while others require page numbers.

Use **Other** for references to printed editions that were not included in the printed volumes of the A/I and B series.  
_Example_:  
Other  
1001100380  
  
Below are examples for each [RISM publication](http://www.rism.info/en/publications.html) that includes printed music:

A/I - _Einzeldrucke vor 1800/Individual Prints before 1800_

- D 3552
- H 6429a
- AA 898 I,1

B/I - _Recueils imprimés, XVIe-XVIIe siècles_

- 1616/14

B/II - _Recueils imprimés, XVIIIe siècle_

- p. 87

B/III - _The theory of music_

- vol. 4, p. 151-152

B/VI - _Écrits imprimés concernant la musique_

- vol. 1, p. 406-407

B/VIII - _Das deutsche Kirchenlied_

- 1653/18

B/IX/1 - _Hebrew notated manuscript sources up to circa 1840: A descriptive and thematic catalogue with a checklist of printed sources_

- vol. 2, p. 881

B/IX/2 - _Hebrew writings concerning music in manuscripts and printed books from Geonic times up to 1800_

- 330

B/XIII - _Hymnol__ogica Slavica_

- HBS 1738/01
- HP ca. 1558/09

B/XV - _Mehrstimmige Messen in Quellen aus Spanien, Portugal und Lateinamerika, ca. 1490-1630_  
Cite the A/I, B/I, or B/II number if given; otherwise, cite the page number(s).

- p. 45-46

B/XVII - _Die Triosonate: Catalogue Raisonné der gedruckten Quellen_  
Cite the page number(s) if no other RISM series is cited.