### Related source (787)

This field is used to indicate a relationship between the source in hand and another source in Muscat. Fill out all three subfields in this section.

When you indicate a relationship to another source, a link will appear in the full record view of the related source. If both sources in question belong to your library, you have the option of indicating the relationship in one record or in both.

 

**Relationship (787 $4)**

Select the term that describes the relationship between the source in hand and another source. The relationships used are the [unconstrained properties from the RDA Registry](http://www.rdaregistry.info/Elements/u/%20).

- **Additional material** [P60198]: The related source represents material that supplements the source in hand. Examples include: additional parts, instrumental parts, organ part, full score, vocal score, printed parts, etc.
- **Arrangement of** [P60242]: The source in hand is an arrangement or otherwise derived from the related source. Examples include: A contrafacta made from the related source. A chorale arrangement of the related source, such as a printed hymn book.
- **Copied from** [P60311]: The source in hand was copied from the related source, usually a printed edition. See also the field **Series A/I and B reference (596)**.
- **Correlated source** [P60191]: The related source is directly relevant to the source in hand. Examples include:  A concordant source (but do not attempt to link to all possible concordant sources). The source used to make a composer identification. A different version of the same piece (double chorus version, English version, full version, longer version, SATB version, version for soprano duet, etc.).
- **Insert in** [P60194]: The source in hand is a piece that was inserted into a larger work, such as a suitcase aria inserted into an opera.
- **Published in** [P60195]: The source in hand was published in the related source.   

 

**Note (787 $n)**

Briefly describe the nature of the relationship. Additional details may also be given in the field **General note (500**).

_Examples_:  
Additional parts  
Concordant source in US-Wc  
Composer identification based on manuscript in D-B  
SATB version   
Published in “Intabulatura di lauto, libro quarto” (Scotto, 1546).  
Inserted after Act II, Scene 3 of the opera

 

**RISM ID number (787 $w)**

Enter the RISM ID number of the related source or use the magnifying glass button to search.