### Source type (593 $a)

**Required field.**

This field describes the nature the source. Please select from the list as follows:

**For notated music:**

-

**Autograph manuscript** : Written completely or mostly in the composer’s hand.

-

**Possible autograph manuscript** : Indicates a degree of uncertainty whether the manuscript is in the composer's hand.

- **Partial autograph** : Significant portions of the manuscript are in the composer's hand.

- **Manuscript copy**

- **Manuscript copy with autograph annotations** : Corrections or small additions are in the composer’s hand.

- **Print**

- **Print with autograph annotations:** Handwritten annotations by the composer. Use for holdings only (copy-specific information).

- **Print with non-autograph annotations** : Any other kind of handwritten annotations not by the composer. Use for holdings only (copy-specific information).

**For other types of documents:**

-

**Libretto, handwritten**

-

**Libretto, printed**

-

**Treatise, handwritten**

-

**Treatise, printed**

-

**Other**

In the case of autograph manuscripts and possible autograph manuscripts, do not create an added entry **(700)**with the composer's name as the copyist. However, an exception is if the identity of the copyist is certain but it is uncertain if the copyist is also the composer. In such a case, enter the copyist's name in the field **Additional personal name (700)**but add the same name to the field **Composer/Author name (100 $a)**with the appropriate attribution.

In some cases, such as with a partial autograph, an explanatory note in the field **General note (500)**may be appropriate.

If the arranger of a composition was also the copyist, select **Manuscript copy** and not **Autograph manuscript**.

If multiple types of sources are present, repeat the "Material description" group to select and describe each type of source.

If your source is a mechanical reproduction (such as a photocopy), follow these steps:

1. Select **Autograph manuscript** , **Manuscript copy** , etc. as appropriate (that is, select the type that applies to the original source)
2. Select the type of reproduction in the field **Special production technique (340 $d)**