### General note (500 $a)

Any information on a source which could not be entered in other fields can be given here. Enter using your cataloging language. When quoting something on the source, use **|** (the vertical pipe) with a single space before and after the sign to show a line break. Additions to the original quotation should always be in square brackets.

When cataloging the holdings of a single library, try to keep the expressions used as uniform as possible.

What follows are examples of types of information that can be included as a note. This list is not exhaustive.

**Instrumentation**  
If you have a figured bass in a score, indicate it here in the following manner: b = b.fig, bc = bc.fig, org = org.fig, etc. (see also the tables in the section **Figured bass in scores and/or parts** for guidance with related fields).

-

Scoring of second Agnus Dei: S, A, T, T, B

-

org = org.fig

**Missing parts**

-

Other parts missing

**Observations**

-

Evidence present of another copyist.

-

The material consists of arias with paraphrased text from Jommelli’s opera.

-

Original pagination: 1-12.

- fl 1 with autograph dynamics

**Origin of information ascertained from external sources, such as composer or dating**

-

According to FlotzingerL 1965, composer is Mozart.

**Printed items**

-

**Designation marks**

  -

Designation mark: “Allgem. Choralbuch.”

-

**Publisher's number**  
Note that the publisher's number is entered here while the plate number is entered in the field **Plate number (028)**.

  -

Publisher's number: 120

-

**Signature marks**

  -

Signature mark: “F 2”

**Quotations from the source**

-

Title on the parts: "Cantata | dominica pentec. | [...] per Soprano, Alto | Tenore e Basso | del Sig:|r|e Jommelli"

-

At foot of title page: "Performance in Baden Baden on 17 March 1832"

-

Note on cello part, f. 8: “Wir streiken für neue Bögen”

**References to other RISM records**

Include the complete RISM siglum, the shelfmark, and the RISM ID number.

-

Further parts in D-KPk 282 (RISM ID no. 450035504).

-

Concordant tune at US-Wc M1.A1A (RISM ID no. 000118313) has title "Jove in his chair".

**URLs**

Consider whether the website should be entered as secondary literature or in the field **External resource (856)**. If you enter a URL here, do not include any punctuation directly before or directly after the URL, otherwise the link will not resolve.